CHAPTER
Paul
discusses
the
high
status
of
charity—
Charity,
a
pure
love,
excels
and
exceeds
almost
all
else.
1 Though
I
speak
with
the
tongues
of
men
and
of
angels,
and
have
not
charity,
I
am
become
as
sounding
brass,
or
a
tinkling
cymbal.
2 And
though
I
have
the
gift
of
prophecy,
and
understand
all
mysteries,
and
all
knowledge;
and
though
I
have
all
faith,
so
that
I
could
remove
mountains,
and
have
not
charity,
I
am
nothing.
3 And
though
I
bestow
all
my
goods
to
feed
the
poor,
and
though
I
give
my
body
to
be
burned,
and
have
not
charity,
it
profiteth
me
nothing.
4 Charity
suffereth
long,
and
is
kind;
charity
envieth
not;
charity
vaunteth
not
itself,
is
not
puffed
up,
5 Doth
not
behave
itself
unseemly,
seeketh
not
her
own,
is
not
easily
provoked,
thinketh
no
evil;
6 Rejoiceth
not
in
iniquity,
but
rejoiceth
in
the
truth;
7 Beareth
all
things,
believeth
all
things,
hopeth
all
things,
endureth
all
things.
8 Charity
never
faileth:
but
whether
there
be
prophecies,
they
shall
fail;
whether
there
be
tongues,
they
shall
cease;
whether
there
be
knowledge,
it
shall
vanish
away.
9 For
we
know
in
part,
and
we
prophesy
in
part.
10 But
when
that
which
is
perfect
come,
then
that
which
is
in
part
shall
be
done
away.
11 When
I
was
a
child,
I
spake
as
a
child,
I
understood
as
a
child,
I
thought
as
a
child:
but
when
I
became
a
man,
I
put
away
childish
things.
12 For
now
we
see
through
a
glass,
darkly;
but
then
face
to
face:
now
I
know
in
part;
but
then
shall
I
know
even
as
also
I
am
known.
13 And
now
abideth
faith,
hope,
charity,
these
three;
but
the
greatest
of
these
is
charity.